And at OpenAI, we held and we always
hold the line, even when it slows us
down because one exceptional hire is
better than three average hires. And
exceptional people tend to know other
exceptional people that they can refer
in. Hiring mistakes early on are
incredibly costly. A mishhire can cost
over a million.
And this is because if you think about
it, it takes time to hire them, time to
ramp them, time to get them in front of
the customers, and then probably not
close deals, and then you have to start
all over again to hire. So, let's look
at some of the common hiring pitfalls
that lead to mishhires. The first one
that I recommend is avoid the logo trap.
Don't confuse a big company brand with
startup readiness. You need to
understand if they were at a big
company, what did they do?
>> Hey everybody, Saster AI is coming to
London December 2nd and 3rd. It's
Christmas with Saster and thousands of
the best in AI and B2B will be there.
The biggest names, the best networkings,
and most importantly, the best playbooks
to scaling in AI and SAS. Early adopter
tickets are selling like hotcakes. Use
my code Jason20 pod for exclusive
savings. Get your tickets now at
podcast.sasterlondon.com
or just use Jason20pod at checkout.
Hey everybody, the bests are taken or
overpriced. I was literally looking for
a domain name the other day. It was
$10,000 just to make an offer. So you
settle on a workaround domain for your
website. Don't compromise. Get a
cleansharp.te tech domain that instantly
says is a tech startup. Grab yours at
get.te/saster.
That's get.te/saster
or on domain registers like GoDaddy.
Stop compromising. Get the domain you
need.
>> Please welcome GTM leadership openai
Maggie hot. All right. Hi everyone.
Thank you so much for being here. I come
to SAS every single year and it has
always been a career goal of mine to be
speaking here. So being up here on the
main stage is a little bit of a pinch me
moment. But that's not what we're here
to talk about today. What we're going to
talk about is how to build top
performing sales orgs. I have had a
really lucky and fortunate pleasure of
working for four different unicorns
helping to build their sales team at all
four of them. I started my career at
Eventbrite as the second SDR. Spent 5
years there scaling it until about 2015
and then I made my move over to Slack as
the very first sales hire out of
headquarters where I spent 6 and 1/2
years in a variety of different roles.
Then I made my way over to Webflow where
I was director of sales overseeing sales
dev SC SMB mid-market enterprise helping
to take the company from 40 to$140
million and a $4 billion valuation.
Couple years ago I made my way over to
OpenAI. They hired me on to help build
out Chat GBT enterprise. So what I am
going today to do today is to take as
many of the lessons that I have learned
from scaling these companies over the
past 15 years and distill them into a
tactical playbook for you. My side
hustle is that I run a small venture
fund alongside seven other amazing women
and we have collectively invested in
over 30 founders and these are some of
the top founders of this next decade. So
I'm also going to take all of the
lessons that we've been learning from
mentoring and coaching them and distill
them. So this entire talk is meant to be
no theory but all tactical.
We'll cover four key areas. The first
one hiring. How do you build your A
team? The second one, how do you build
teams that thrive? So you've got your A
team, but how do you create alignment
and accountability? Then we'll move into
scaling. Scaling is one of the hardest
things that a company can do when
they're going through hyperrowth. So,
we're going to look at some sustainable
growth strategies. And then finally,
we're going to wrap it up with a
rapidfire playbook of some of the most
common mistakes that I see founders
making as they build out their
companies. I'm excited to jump in.
You'll be able to take all these
takeaways immediately. And a small
disclaimer, these are my personal views,
not those of OpenAIS.
Let's jump in on how to build the right
team. as fewer things matter more.
It was early 2023 and OpenAI had just
released the fastest growing consumer
app the world had ever seen, Chat GPT.
We were about 200 250 people and we had
reached a pivotal moment. We had to
scale quickly. We had to end the year at
somewhere close to a,000 people. And
this wasn't just growth for growth sake.
We needed to meet the demands of our
market and quite frankly, we needed to
service our customers. Sam often says
that hiring is the highest leverage
thing that you can do and great
companies will always have great people.
But for us, it wasn't just about finding
the great people. It was about finding
and hiring the right people. So, let's
look at three key principles that we
follow at OpenAI as we hire. The first
is to hire for clear, measurable
objectives. A mission alone isn't
enough. You need people who can explain
exactly how their work and their skills
will help you achieve that mission. So,
we looked for candidates who could
clearly articulate how their skills
would move us closer to our mission,
which is to create AGI, artificial
general intelligence that benefits all
of humanity, not just those who are
excited by the vision.
The next is it's important to build
teams, not just talent. You can have 50
top performers, the best 50 people out
there, but if they can't collaborate and
they can't work together, you're going
to get bottlenecked and stuck. So, the
most simplistic way to think about
hiring teams is to think about them as a
puzzle. You need multiple different
pieces that will all fit together and
everybody will have something they bring
that is distinct and complimentary.
their skills, their roles and culture
all need to fit together because trust
and collaboration matter just as much as
individual excellence.
And then finally, and maybe most
importantly, and one of the hardest
things to do, especially in hyperrowth,
is maintain a high bar. When you are
growing fast, I know it's tempting to
compromise. I know it's painful because
you just need a body in that seat.
Sometimes it feel like a warm body would
be the best and quickest possible
outcome. That is not the case. And at
OpenAI, we held and we always hold the
line even when it slows us down because
one exceptional hire is better than
three average hires. And exceptional
people tend to know other exceptional
people that they can refer in. So these
three principles help to scale with
clarity and conviction. So let's shift
gears a bit. Let's get right into the
tactical and what I think will probably
matter to many of you. Go to market
hiring.
Hiring mistakes early on are incredibly
costly. A mishhire can cost over a
million dollar. And this is because if
you think about it, it takes time to
hire them, time to ramp them, time to
get them in front of the customers and
then probably not close deals. The
cultural disruption that a mishhire
brings. Then you have to pick them. then
you have to severance them and then you
have to start all over again to hire. So
now you're looking at about a million
dollars and probably a year of wasted
time. So let's look at some of the
common founder hiring pitfalls that lead
to mish hires. The first one that I
recommend is avoid the logo trap. Don't
confuse a big company brand with startup
readiness. I'm not saying that you
shouldn't ever hire someone that comes
from a big company because big companies
have great people, but you need to
understand if they were at a big
company, what did they do? What did they
build? What did they scale? So that way
you can really understand if they can
bring these skill sets over to your
thriving startup. You don't need someone
who can just operate the machine. You
need someone who can build it.
The next one that I see founders do very
often is they promote too early. Your
first AE is very likely great, but that
doesn't mean that they should be your
first head of sales. You must give them
mentorship, but you also need to be
thoughtful about how and when you level
them up. And to go on this a bit
further, what I often see is founders if
they end up promoting someone who
doesn't have management experience, they
will have to spend a lot of time
coaching them, which is just time they
don't have, or they will not spend the
time coaching them, and this hire will
flounder. So neither of those are great
outcomes.
On the flip side, I also see founders
trying to hire someone who's senior way
too early. They come to me and they say,
"Maggie, I have two AES. I think it's
time for a CRO." No, it is not time for
a CRO. You need to make sure that you
have clarity on how the repeatable
motion works. They need to make sure
there's strong playbooks in place.
Otherwise, they will be flying blinds.
So founders, you are the head of sales
until you have a repeatable motion. You
must own it until the motion works and
then you can hire to scale. So
essentially, a repeatable motion means
that a nonfounder can sell and close.
You know your ICP, you know your pitch,
you know where your leads are coming
from, and you know that they can move
predictably through the funnel. No one
is going to sell with the same urgency
and conviction that you do. So, you need
to make sure that it is possible for you
to hand off the sales cycle to someone
else before you go build out a sales
team.
So, let's look at what we should be
looking for. I love to hire what I call
chaos translators or people who embrace
the chaos. These are basically people
who just thrive in ambiguity. You can
throw them on a renewal. You can throw
them on an outage. You can throw them on
a crisis and they're going to take it
with a smile. These are the builders
that you want to hire. I also love to
prioritize generalist early days.
Someone who can wear a lot of hats. So
that's a versatile generalist that can
jump in right away. Also, early days,
you want to avoid lone wolves. I
actually love lone wolves. There's a
time and place for lone wolves, but that
time and place is not your first hires.
You want folks who are deep
collaborators, not people who are just
going to put their heads down and sell.
You must be meticulous. Do deep
interviews, back channel thoroughly, and
trust your gut. Off is usually off.
So, let's take a look at some interview
questions. Founders often ask me, "How
do I interview salespeople? They all
seem like they are great at
interviewing." I think that the easiest
thing to do is to distill it into two
clear buckets. Look at tactical and look
at behavioral. So, when you're looking
and asking for questions that are
tactical, you're really looking for
skills and experience. What did they
build? What process did they invent? How
did they mentor and train others? How
did they help hire and scale the team?
When you look at behavioral, you're
really looking for mindset and you're
looking for character. Asking questions
like describe a painful deal that you
lost. What did you learn? Is going to
show do they take accountability. Do
they have a growth mindset? It's also
really important to understand who were
their closest crossf functional
colleagues. early days on in building a
sales machine or just a company machine,
people have to work very closely
together. So, you want to make sure
these folks are strong collaborators.
Let's take a look at some red flags to
watch for that tend to come up during
sales cycles. And if I see these, I am
always an immediate no. The first is
blaming others for failures. You want to
make sure that somebody can take
ownership of the mistakes that they've
made or when things don't go wrong and
they don't just blame others. The next
is frequent job hopping without
progression. We've all seen those people
that seem to have a year at a whole
bunch of different companies, maybe a
more senior title at each one, but what
you really want to look for is growth
within their current company. People who
are primarily motivated by titles or
money. Look, we are all financially
motivated, but it is so important to
make sure that if you hire someone,
they're not going to jump ship if
somebody comes along with a $20,000
higher offer. And finally, a lack of
humility or unwillingness to make
mistakes. We've all made so many
mistakes within our careers, and so it's
so important that you find someone that
can admit these mistakes and most
importantly, learn from them.
Early hiring is high stakes. Hire
mission and objective aligned talent.
Folks that have the skills to get you to
where you want to go. Never skip
interview steps. Interviewing is so
painful, but what's more painful is
cleaning up a bad hire later on. Trust
your gut early. Off is usually off. Act
quickly on mistakes. You will make
hiring mistakes. It's just part of the
game. But the best and kindest thing you
could do for yourself, your candidate,
and your company is to move fast on that
person. And finally, don't go it alone.
Leverage your network, leverage your
investors, leverage your adviserss, and
people who have hired go to market
before. At 20 sales, one of the most
common things that we do is we help our
founders look through who should be
their first sales hires, and we even
help them interview. So, make sure that
you are leaning on people that can help
you guide through this process. So, I'm
going to leave you with a piece of
advice from OpenAI CFO Sarah Frier. She
fundamentally believes that if you get
the right people and you really let them
fly and that evolves giving them a lot
of autonomy, encouragement, and tough
love, then the A team with the B idea
will always beat the B team with the A
idea. I hope this section helps you
build your A team.
So, let's take a look at how to build
teams that thrive. You've hired the
right team. You've gotten your A
players. Now, let's talk about how do
you set them up to succeed.
It was March 2015. I walk in the doors
at Slack. First sales hire out of
headquarters, ready to jump in. Slack
has just become a Silicon Valley
darling. We're about 50ish people at the
company. I walk in and all of a sudden
the tension in the room is very obvious.
It feels off. It feels weird. My then
boss pulls me into a conference room and
says, "I have bad news. Slack was hacked
and it could be crippling for the
company." That afternoon, Stuart stood
up on a desk. Again, remember, we're
like one small room. And he addressed
the whole company and he says, "This is
going to be challenging. This is going
to be tough, but we will make it through
this, but it is going to take hard work
from every single one of you." The trust
and respect that the employees had in
Stuart was so clear and this was really
the first time in my career that I had
seen what it looks like to have a
culture of accountability. So fast
forward 4 days later and we decided to
let the world know about this hack and
they put me on the phones for every
single person who was hacked. Basically
got an email that said, "Really sorry
you were hacked. Call this phone
number." So that was me on day four. It
was trial by fire at the very best. The
lesson here is that alignment isn't
tested in the good times. It's revealed
in the hard ones. And I bet most of you
probably don't remember this breach. But
what stuck with me wasn't the crisis. It
was how the team responded.
This moment reinforced three powerful
lessons. The first is that authentic
leadership matters. People follow
leaders that they trust, especially in
moments of uncertainty.
Culture is your strongest defense. A
unified culture will empower teams to
navigate even the toughest challenges
and emerge stronger. And finally,
alignment drives outcomes. When teams
rally around shared goals and values,
they move faster and they deliver more.
So with these three things in mind,
let's get practical. How do you actually
build alignment, accountability, and
speed into your dayto-day?
First is that you need to encourage real
debates. You need to make sure that
every single person in the company feels
comfortable speaking up from the SVP of
marketing all the way down to the SDR.
I'm a big believer in no meeting after
the meeting. Avoid those side chatter
conversations. Once you've decided on
something, move forward and you can
always revisit with intention.
Second, make priorities obvious.
Founders and leaders, this one is on
you. You need to set clear priorities
and ownership. You must use async,
transparent communication to connect
everybody's daily work to goals. Our
CPO, Kevin Wheel, at OpenAI, every
single Monday morning does a post to the
entire company that tells us what's
coming up for the week. What are we
launching? What are the key things to be
aware of? And that's how we've helped to
build this culture of alignment. And
then finally, speed up decisions. In
this world of AI, you don't have time to
wait. Empower decision-m at all levels.
In just the last year, I had an AE come
to me wanting to test out a new
vertical, another one wanting to test
out a new pricing strategy, another one
wanting to test out a pilot motion. We
did experiments on all three. All three
were wildly successful and they've
changed how we sell today. I am a big
believer that those who are closest to
the business have the best ideas and
that's typically the IC's.
So frontline managers shape your team's
daily experience. They are essentially
your organization's pilots and you
wouldn't get on a flight with an
untrained pilot, right? I I hope not at
least yet. Unfortunately, this is what
happens in most companies. They
underinvest in their frontline manager
leadership and development. I also like
to joke that frontline managers are also
untrained therapists because it's so
common that they are shouldering the
weight of those that are reporting to
them. So you must overinvest in their
leadership development in executive
coaching in emotional intelligence
training. Equip them to manage not only
people but conflict and culture. They
are not just managers they are your
cultural backbone.
Customer obsession is everyone's job.
Success isn't just on sales. Every team
owns the health of the customer. You
must build this mindset from day one. We
actually did this really well at Slack.
At Slack, we took our largest customers
and we assigned nonsales DRI, directly
responsible individuals to be in charge
of each customer. So our VP of
engineering, Michael Lock, was in charge
of VMware. our CTO Allan was in charge
of Nike and so on. And all of a sudden,
we started seeing the customer feedback
start to come into our road map a heck
of a lot faster. We also at Slack, Web
Flow, and OpenAI have built out customer
wins and customer losses channels. If
you don't have these, go build these
immediately. The customer wins channel
is awesome. It's a feel-good channel.
Everyone loves to see the new customers
that are coming on board. But the
customer losses channel is really where
it's at. As soon as that thing lights
up, everybody swarms in because they
want to know why we lost the customer. I
often see our COO Brad in there jumping
in, offering support, asking questions,
trying to learn from what we could have
done better. Bake customer obsession
into your DNA.
So this picture that you see up here,
that is OpenAI's go to market team about
two months ago. In two years, we have
gone from 10 to 500 people and we are
going to keep on going. And the reason
that this is working today, while it
hasn't be easy, is we are built on
transparency, trust, and accountability.
We invest in our leaders so they can
grow with the company, not out of the
company. And we embed customer obsession
into every single function. Do these
things well and your teams will thrive
even in the toughest of moments.
So, we've hired the right team. They're
all swimming in the right direction.
Let's now jump in to how do we scale
without breaking. Let's dive in.
In 2016, Stuart Butterfield came to the
sales team at Slack and said, "We're
going to hire an SVP of sales, Bob Fry."
Many of us, myself included, raised our
eyebrows and we wondered why a thriving
startup needed a hot shot corporate
executive. We were completely wrong. Bob
came in, he brought structure, he built
scalable systems, he helped convince and
teach our executive leadership why
enterprise and sales mattered. He
brought in season judgment because he
had seen the movie before by scaling
Salesforce. and he mentored and elevated
internal talents. He didn't just replace
us. The result of this is Slat grew from
50 million to a billion. We went public
and then we had an outcome of a 27
billion acquisition by Salesforce, one
of the largest acquisitions to date. And
I honestly shudder to think what life
would have been like without Bob.
Without his external expertise, we
probably would have played it too safe.
we would have stayed a modest growing
consumer app and we probably would have
never been the enterprise powerhouse
that we became. The lesson here is that
sustainable growth comes from internal
momentum and external perspective.
And this is why for founders and senior
leaders, it is so important to give away
your Legos. Giving away your Legos,
which is one of my favorite terms. is
coined by Molly Graham. Essentially
means to hand off parts of your job or
your full job with as you scale. At
OpenAI, we've done this really well. In
just the last year, Sam has brought in a
new chief product officer, Kevin, a new
CEO of applications, just announced last
week, Fiji, and an amazing CFO, Sarah
Frier. And what this does is it unlocks
bigger impact. Rather than the CEO
managing everything, they're able to
give away parts of their job to these
seasoned leaders who can run it wholly.
This is all about scaling impact, not
about losing control. You must build
repeatable systems and then hire someone
who can elevate them. And I've got two
tips for giving away your Legos and how
to think about this. The first is you
must give them away. This is not about
loaning your Legos. You cannot hire
someone and then micromanage them. You
have to give them away. And then
secondly, the first Lego to give away
should be the one that drains you the
most. So let's say you've built that
repeatable motion in sales, but it's
draining you. Now hire on a head of
sales or a CRO, and you can focus on
other areas. This is how you grow and
how you help the company grow.
So, we've just talked a lot about how
great it is to bring in external
executives, but it's also really
important to talk about how to blend
external and internal talent. Your
internal talent is the people who got
you here today. And let's be real, they
know where the bones are buried. You
don't want to lose your internal
superstars. So, you must balance both of
them. Internal promotions create
cultural continuity, loyalty, and
retention. But when you are layering and
bringing in external hires, it is
important to be transparent. It's always
going to be painful to be layered no
matter what. So share the why. Share why
you're excited about this person and
what you expect them to bring the
company to help reduce the friction. And
finally, prioritize clear career paths.
Growth drives retention. I stayed at
Slack for many years postvesting because
I saw a strong future ahead. Take care
of your early believers because they are
the ones that built your foundation.
Help them grow with you and not out of
the company.
Companies rarely use compensation as a
strategic lever. And I genuinely think
it is one of the best things that you
can do for motivation, but I'm going to
give you some hot takes in this one. I
believe the entire company should be on
a bonus plan, not just the sales team.
They should all be aligned to your core
metrics and your northstars. We did this
at Slack. We put every single employee
on a bonus plan and we tied it to ARR
and customer adoption. All of a sudden,
the product team saw if they launched
EKM, we could get, you know, another X
millions in revenue. And lo and behold,
those features shipped a lot faster.
It's important to rally everybody around
the same goals. But let's say you're an
earlystage startup and maybe you don't
have the funds to put everyone on a
bonus plan. That's okay. But it means
you really need to lean into
recognition. Recognition matters. If you
are a CEO and you see someone grinding
late at night, send them a $50 Door Dash
gift card is a thank you. That little
amount of money is going to mean so much
to this person that their CEO sees them
and acknowledges them. For early sales
teams, I am a big believer that you
should always start them on full salary.
We did this at Slack, Webflow, OpenAI,
and I know many other greats have done
it like Kalanley, New Relic, and Air
Table. I actually have a whole LinkedIn
post on this from a few months ago that
went a bit viral if you want more takes
on this. But the main reason for this is
you want the sales team to be acting in
service of the company and the customer,
not acting in what they need to do to be
able to make the most money. Your early
sales team is also effectively user
researchers. Have them focused on
building and scaling, not focused on
their paycheck. It will emphasize strong
foundations, mentorship, and great
process. And if and when you do
introducing commissions, think about the
behaviors that you want to drive. For
example, at Slack, we wanted to drive
new logo adoption. So, we centered 75%
of our comp plan on new logo versus
existing customer up cells. And lo and
behold, the tide shifted and we started
seeing a lot of new logos come in. So
use comp intentionally to drive the
behaviors that you want to see.
Sustainable scaling isn't about growth
at all costs. It's about thoughtfully
blending external and internal talent.
Those who have seen the movie before and
those who have got you to where you're
at today. It's about clearly defining
career paths. Keep those people around
and keep them growing. And it's about
intentionally aligning incentives.
Getting people to follow exactly the way
that you want them to operate can often
be dictated by compensation.
So this next and last section is
intentionally punchy. It's a rapidfire
set of the most common go to market
mistakes that I see founders make or ask
us about. Think of it as a practical
checklist to help you avoid missteps and
accelerate what's working.
It was early 2023. OpenAI had hired me
in to help build our chat GBT enterprise
go to market team from scratch. Our
early team at OpenAI of our our sales
and go to market team was less than 10
people. No STRs, no SC's, no CSMS, no
sales ops, RevOps, marketing enablement,
and not even a working Salesforce
instance. We had about six account
directors and one technical success
partner who they were all on fire but
they were focused on selling the API and
we had the hypothesis that chat GBT
would have a distinct fire and a
distinct sales motion different from our
API. So we made a deliberate choice to
build a dedicated gotomarket or from
scratch.
That approach gave us speed, clarity,
and deep customer focus during a
critical window. And it worked. OpenAI
already had the fastest growing consumer
application in history. And then this
brand new team that we built, we believe
launched the fastest growing enterprise
application in history. But despite this
success, we saw an opportunity to go
even further by evolving our structure.
So earlier this year, we basically
collapped both of these orgs. We took
500 people, most people who had only
been at the company for a few months,
and we brought them into one single
unified go to market org. Everyone had
new roles, new workflows, new managers,
and every single person had to learn a
new product. They had to learn the
opposite product they weren't selling.
This was a hard change, but ultimately
it drove faster execution, less
duplication, and most importantly, a
better customer experience. The key
lesson here is that old playbooks don't
always apply in AI. You need to design
around orgs and product, not around
legacy structures. So, an example here
might be, let's say you're releasing a
new AI product at your company. An old
way of doing it probably would have been
teach and enable everybody how to sell
it and then everyone kind of bolts it
on. Maybe the new way to do this might
be create a small dedicated tiger team
to really go focus and launch that
product. Move fast. Be willing to make
mistakes and bold uncomfortable
decisions and they will pay off in the
long run.
Great execution isn't just about moving
fast. It's about knowing when to pivot.
One of the most important leadership
muscles is the ability to change course
early before pain compounds, just like
how we did at OpenAI. I really love
Amazon's one-way versus two-way door
model. Essentially, a one-way door is
something that's obviously really hard
to reverse back from. And a good example
here might be a large scale pricing
change. That's a really hard thing to
measure right away and to also roll back
from on your customers. But I'll tell
you, most things are two-way doors. So,
for example, a reorg while maybe painful
to roll back is absolutely doable. And
if you think it's the right move, you
should do it quickly. Don't delay on
change to avoid discomfort. I very often
see sales leaders wait to make changes
only once a year. They wait till the end
of the fiscal year. This is a really bad
idea, especially in the world of AI
where things are moving so quickly.
Explain. And then finally, it's
important to explain the why behind
these changes. Look, changes are no
matter what going to be disruptive, but
if you explain the why behind the tough
calls, you will usually get people
bought in because trust will follow
transparency.
It was early 2015 and Uber came to us.
This is with Slack. And they were maybe
about five or 6 thousand people and they
said, "Look, we want to buy Slack." And
we knew at that time that we could
handle maybe 2,000 people max. Our
largest customer was about a thousand
people at this point in time. So we
decided, let's compromise. Let's offer
Uber a small pilot so they can test out
and see if Slack is the right move for
them. Well, they decided they did not
want to listen. And overnight they
brought on 2461
users and our systems went down.
The crash here of being taken down
actually didn't really matter. What
mattered is the reputational hit and
damage that Slack took on where we had
to spend the next three years convincing
enterprises that we were in fact
enterprise ready despite what had
happened with Uber in 2016.
And this is why it is so important to
rarely start with the enterprise. When
founders come to me and they say, "I
want to go after Walmart, Nike, you
know, insert large enterprise logo," I
will 10 out of 10 times push back and
say no. And I know enterprises are
tempting, big logos, big ACVs, they look
great on investor pitch deck, but the
reason that you don't want to start with
the enterprise is three-fold. First,
they typically have really complex
hierarchies and lengthy decision cycles.
It is rare that an enterprise is going
to do a deal in anything less than six
months. And as a startup, revenue is
your lifeline. They're also going to
have deep customization needs. They're
going to ask for things that are not on
your road map. And then you're going to
have to make a hard call if you want to
veer off course. And then finally, they
are pretty typically risk averse buyers.
Most enterprises are not going to be the
first one to buy a new software. So
instead, what you want to do is define
your ICP. Your ICP is your ideal
customer profile and then create your
target list. So basically take a look at
the customers who are already using you
and work well on your platform.
Understand why they bought you, why
they're thriving, and why you want them
over the competition. So for example,
maybe Mural is one of your customers.
You might want to look at Miro and Figma
because they're very tangential in the
spaces that they have. Find these shared
attributes and pain points and
understand why they chose you. Create
that list and then go outbound. Outbound
starts on day one. Once you have this
ICP and target list, this is on you as
the founder to start outbounding. You
cannot outsource product market fit and
you need to know that you can sell
outside of your investors or your warm
referrals network. Warm intros will not
scale. You must sell to strangers first.
As a data point, I have had three
personal angel investments go under all
three amazing companies, but the one
thing they had in common is they could
not find go to market fit fast enough.
So avoid spray and prey. In the day and
age of AI, I see about 95% of the
outbound that I get is absolute spam.
There's no reason this should be the
case. So be that 5%. Be personal. Be
relevant. Be helpful.
Run pilots that actually close. Run
pilots like real sales motions. Last
year, we decided to put together a
dedicated pilot team. We wanted to see
what the impact would be if we treated
our sales cycles like they were real
customers. And we found that by doing
long intensive pilots, our deal sizes
went up by about 5x, which is pretty
incredible. But pilots take a long time
to convert and they are very resource
inensive. So if you are going to do
pilots, which I think everybody should
obviously um there's three key things
that you want to follow. The first is
you want to secure explicit customer
buyin upfront. This means if you do the
pilot and it works well, they will have
budget. They will be able to convert.
The second is you must define clear
pilot roles and responsibilities. If
you're going to lean in and do this
pilot, you need to make sure the
customer is also leaning in the same
way. And finally, and probably most
important, the execs at the customer
must know that this pilot is happening.
If the execs are not aligned or aware of
this, doesn't matter if it's a great
pilot, it's very unlikely the deal will
get done. Treat pilots seriously,
they're a high lever conversion tool.
Customer success should be a core
strategy, not a side function. I know
there's some vibes in the industry right
now that we don't need customer success.
This is to me shortsighted and
absolutely the wrong way to think about
it, especially for hyperrowing startups.
A deal is not one when the deal is
signed. A deal is won when you have
deployed and you have a happy customer
who is singing your praises. And it
costs five times more to acquire a new
customer than it does just to retain an
old one. Yet companies are not focusing
enough on customer success. And churn is
so much more than lost revenue. It's
also brand damage. Like in Slack's Uber
example, prioritize adoption. Prioritize
retention. Prioritize long-term value.
Build these tight feedback loops. Get
the voice of the customer. Product
executives. Everyone should hear it and
should act on customer insights. Obsess
over customer success early and this
will compound. Which leads me into
storytelling as a superpower. You must
capture stories early. Nobody wants to
be the first. Prospects want proof. They
don't want promise. Get these customer
wins. Get the logo rights. Get the case
studies. An example here. When OpenAI
launched our partnership with Madna and
we estimate that we can help them reduce
time to FDA approval for cancer treating
drugs, all of a sudden that lock
unlocked credibility in the life
sciences industry. When we launched our
partnership with Morgan Stanley about
how their wealth advisers can have
happier customers and take on more work
that unlocked credibility in financial
services internally. People also love
customer stories. Think about your
engineers and your product managers that
are working so hard to build this
product. They love to hear how people
are using it. And then externally, these
customer stories will build credibility
and momentum. You need to prioritize
storytelling from day one.
Product founders, this one is for you. I
built my career working for four
productled companies and there's been a
pretty common theme when you have
founders who are typically technical and
product kind of minded in nature when
they don't have deep go to market
experience. They often forget to think
about the sales upgrade path early on.
PLG drives early adoption and virality.
I love PLG. And then you bring on a
sales team which is critical for
upmarket strategic deals. You must plan
for both from the beginning. Even if you
don't plan to hire a sales team right
away, but you need to be thinking about
how the product will evolve and leave
room to eventually differentiate. We
actually did not do this very well at
Web Flow. Web Flow was around for about
7 years before we built a sales team and
we built a killer self-s served product.
It was so good and I'm biased, but I
think it was the best in the industry.
Yet when we decided to hire on a sales
team, there wasn't enough product
differentiation to sell. So it took us a
good year to two years to truly build
out an enterprise product and that was a
lot of time that was wasted. So the
takeaway here is to design with sales in
mind from day one.
So the bottom line is that execution is
everything and execution is the sum of
many well-run plays. Avoid starting with
the enterprise. They are they have long
sales cycles. They're riskaverse buyers.
Maintain customer obsession always. The
customer should be front and center of
every decision that you make. Use
storytelling strategically both
internally and externally. No one wants
to be the first. And then thoughtfully
combine PLG and salesled growth
strategies.
Four years later, we won Uber back. This
is a big moment for us. It took time,
but we earned it when Slack was ready,
when the product had matured, when the
infrastructure could handle the scale,
and when we were ready to staff them,
and the timing aligned for both sides.
The right customer at the wrong time is
still the wrong fit. Wait until you can
truly deliver.
So, to wrap it up here, I just want to
say thank you all for joining me for
this. When I Oh, thank you, Alpha.
When I set out to build this
presentation, I was actually on a flight
to my first mother-daughter trip with my
5-year-old Logan. And I sat down and I
said, "What do I wish someone would have
told Maggie 10 years ago before I just
went through all of this stuff?" So, I
tried to distill as many lessons as I
could. And if you can take away one
thing to help you scale better or hire
faster, I will consider this entire
session a win. Have a great rest of your
semester and I'll see you all soon.